# Real-Time-Bluetooth-Networks-Shape-The-World  
Lab work done to complete the UTAustinX class [Real-Time Bluetooth Networks-Shape the World](https://www.edx.org/course/real-time-bluetooth-networks-shape-the-world?index=undefined) is contained within this repository.  
## [Lab 1: Introduction to I/O](https://github.com/jeff-daniels/UTAustinX-Real-Time-Bluetooth-Networks-Shape-The-World/blob/main/Lab%201%20Introduction%20to%20IO/Lab1.c)    
The Lab 1 starter project using the LaunchPad and the Educational BoosterPack MK-II (BOOSTXL-EDUMKII) is a fitness device. It inputs from the microphone, accelerometer, light sensor and buttons. It performs some simple measurements and calculations of steps, sound intensity, and light intensity. It outputs data to the LCD and it generates simple beeping sounds. Figure Lab1.1 shows the data flow graph of Lab 1. Your assignment in Lab 1 is to increase the rate of Task0 from 10 to 1000 Hz.  
## [Lab 2: Thread Management](https://github.com/jeff-daniels/UTAustinX-Real-Time-Bluetooth-Networks-Shape-The-World/tree/main/Lab%202%20Thread%20Management)  
A scheduler was developed that runs two periodic event threads and four main threads.  The SysTick Interrupt handler was written in assembly code and branched to a C function that scheduled threads.  The main threads ran on a round robin scheduler.  Semaphores and mailboxes were also used to synchronize threads.  
## [Lab 3: Blocking, Sleeping and FIFO Queue](https://github.com/jeff-daniels/UTAustinX-Real-Time-Bluetooth-Networks-Shape-The-World/blob/main/Lab%203%20Blocking%2C%20Sleeping%20and%20FIFO%20Queue/Lab3.c)  
The semaphores were reworked from spinlock to blocking.  Periodic event tasks were implemented with dedicated timer interrupts.  A FIFO queue was developed to implement data flow from producer to consumer.  A sleeping mechanism was developed to recover wasted time.  The round-robin scheduler is capable of implementing blocking and sleeping.  
## [Lab 4: Priority Scheduler](https://github.com/jeff-daniels/UTAustinX-Real-Time-Bluetooth-Networks-Shape-The-World/blob/main/Lab%204%20Priority%20Scheduler/Lab4.c)  
Priority was added to the thread control block.  In addition to the periodic interrupts, edge-triggered interrupts are used.  On the occurrence of an interrupt, the operating system signals one or more semaphores and then runs the scheduler.  Assigning high priority to event threads reduces latency and jitter.  
